# Not just code monkeys
Be actively engaged in the world, think about what you are writing and implementing, have opinions to the software.
## Frustration with Agile
- taking on roles, but dont engage in the entire role
## Requirements
- Figure out these before you start, else it will be expensive
### Stories
- Break requirements into smaller stories, giving incremental throughtput and can use the feedback from this.
	- asses progress
# Roles
- user has wants
	- bad at giving what they really need
- analysts
	- will consider the wants and needs from the users and make stories
- programmers
	- create code from the stories
## Conversational stories
analysts and programmers should talk together, as they both have good points, and programmers has good knowledge. 
- instead of just having one-way analysts giving stories to programmers 
`We are not doing enough of this` programmers are not included enough
## domain knowledge
- programmers needs to understand the domain for which they are programming, to do better. They need to also analyze and talk with the users
- brings in `responsibility`. The programmers will get more responisbility which will drive them to build better software
# Dark patterns
- Hiding from the users what your intends are. This is because you dont want the users to know.
## Programmers
are themselves involved in this pattern of UI and UX. I.e they should know.
- The programmers can also be sued for this. They should `not` just follow the stories.
### User advocate
- Any data you store you should be aware that they can be cracked and shared.
	- Help reduce the risk, and minimize the data stored
# Impact of judgement
- what impact users have on the product and the world
- beware what your software can do for the user. And how the user can abuse the software.
- what impact your software has
	- does it just make money or does it really solve a problem? Does it have a good influence on the world
# Privacy
- Mass surveilance.
	- we have a role in trying to reduce the centralisation, make solutions easy to fx encrypt stuff, and get private data.
# Alienating Atmosphere
- Let all people be on the internet. Don't discriminate on fx gender and race.
- How do we make the software safe for others on the platform we are creating. Fx dont discriminate on gender on facebook if you write software for facebook.

