# 1 Waterfall

In the article [Managing the Development of Large Software Systems](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.5555/41765.41801) discuss the following:

- What are Dr. Royce arguments for why the format of the testing phase is a problem?
It comes too late in the process, if they are some certain flaws in the design or implementation, it has to go back.

- How does Dr. Royce suggest to “fix” the testing phase?
Most of all he suggests having proper documentation, having a big runway of time before delivering the final product. Doing the product twice, have program design before the analysis. This will ensure that less cases can fail in the tests.

Pilot product, prototyping, having loops for where to go back to.

- What is Dr. Royce’s view on documentation and why?
Needs loads of it as it make every participant of the project easier involved, and need only ask the documentation instead of verbal. 

- What does Dr. Royce use his documentation for in the different stages?
1. **program design**: need documentation here such that all of the other steps can follow along on what is being build
2. **plan, control and monitor testing**: need proper documentation such that test-specialists can be hired to test it. Without documentation of what the software should be able to do, it cannot be tested by others than the guys that made it.
3. **Involve the costumer**: Need the documentation if need to make changes, to quickly see if it can be met or not within a reasonable time-frame

- What are the benefits of Dr. Royce’s design in Figure 7, Step 3?
If quickly can do a mockup of the solution, then when reimplementing it, it can be done a lot smarter and easier. **it is always easier to write code than reading code, and continue developing on it**
- Why is Step 5 important? Or is it?
Not that important, only need to do this if the costumer is reasonable. Only need to do this if the customer is willing to pay for the additions
# 2 Waterfall and V-Model

Use the other litterature answer the following questions:
- Describe the different phases in Waterfall.
    - What is input and output of each phase
    - What activites takes place in each phase?
look at notes [[1. Waterfall model]]

- What are the major differences in Waterfall and the V-Model?
    - What benefits are there?
	    - Having clearly defined fallbacks, more secure. Does not have so many **assumptions**, about the previous phases
	    - V-model is more ensuring, as it test a lot more. V-model may miss less failures as there are more testing.
    - What drawbacks are there?
	    - More time consuming to use V-model

- What are the underlying assumptions behind Waterfall?
	- Need very well defined requirements
    - What things must be in place?
        - In the teams
	        - 
        - In the environment
	        - Must be stable, as going back is not specified in the waterfall model
	        - You need to know beforehand what the environment will be
		        - fx scaling up to handle 10k customers but 5 uses it
        - In the problem domain
	        - There still needs to be a problem when we finish it. Someone should not have solved it before 
        - At the customer
	        - they change a lot of requirements in the time of the developing, they need not to do this for the waterfall model to work.
    - Can you specify some commen properties of problems that would suit a Waterfall approach?
	    - Need hard requirements
- If you were to implement a longterm project (> 2 months), would you use Waterfall? Why? Why not?
	- Its high risk if the testing phase fails, will have to go back which is risky and costly
- If you were to implement a shorterm project (< 2 months), would you use Waterfall? Why? Why not?
	- Yes its fine


**Waterfall is particularly useful for large, complex projects** with very specific and unchanging requirements. Development teams will be less resistant to detailed product requirements documents and design specifications since that's what's expected.
# 3 Examples

Do an Internet Scavenger Hunt and find examples of successful and failed software projects that used the Waterfall approach. What industries prefers the Waterfall approach to development and why?

1. Building a house, is multiple smaller waterfall-models as each team has done it so many times before
2. NASA uses it for their software, since they know exactly what they are doing
Some of them fails since the waterfall model is risky to use and runs over budget

# 4 A Compiler

I have had this great idea to implement a new type of compiler for a revolutionary new language. The Language is codenamed Zebra and I have some ideas for how to structure it. Several modules inside the project are required: One for parsing the input, one for building up a data structure with the different operations and one for outputting the compiled code as assembler code.

I want to use the Waterfall approach for this system, but I’m not sure if I should use one Waterfall process for the entire thing in one go or split the project up into several smaller Waterfall streams with one stream pr module. What is your input?

## Answer
risky to use just ones, as it all tumbles together.

Better to build each module with its own waterfall model, which will lower risks and complexity.