# 1 SOLID and INVEST
How is SOLID and INVEST linked? Or is it?
- It is not. 
	- SOLID is for low coupling and high cohesion between classes
	- INVEST is for stories in the PBI (prioritized backlog items)
- It is somewhat
	- I in invest stands for individual. Which may suggest that if two tasks will use the same class, then we have some coupling in the code as well
Can we have SOLID without INVEST? Can we have INVEST without SOLID?
- We can have SOLID without INVEST
	- we use the SOLID principles in the code. We dont think about the tasks
- When we make tasks, we may have to think about if they are individual in the code base aswel
	- i.e we look at the classes it touches in the code base, and not just if there are some connection between the logic
- Therefore we have SOLID without INVEST. We can not have INVEST without SOLID
What happens if we have none of them? One of them? Both?
- None of them
	- Mindlessly creation of tasks.
	- code will have low cohesion and high coupling in the end
- one of them
	- INVEST
		- We cannot really guranteed that the tasks will for example be individual, because code base may be coupled. So we have to think about SOLID aswel when doing INVEST
	- SOLID
		- we just look at the code how it is right now, we dont think about coming changes. Thats why we can have SOLID without invest. 
			- we can see the cohesion degree and the coupling degree in a static sense of the code base.
# 2 Architect, Agile Principles, and Scrum?
- Where is the architect placed in a Scrum Team?
	- per definition we dont have architect in the team
		- but we may have some developer which will have some more responsibility for this. Fx a lead developer in a team
- What does the Agile Principles say about architecture?
	- The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
- What does Scrum say about architecture?
	- **Architecture should emerge with every Sprint and develop as the product is being developed**
# 3 UML
What is the difference between Aggregation and Composition?
- Find 5 examples of Composition, and 5 examples of Aggregation.
> Aggregration child can exist without parent
> Composition child cannot exist
## aggregation / composition
important to note that we can just turn it around, and then it will be the opposite. I propose aggregartion. But just turn it around for composition

- engine, car
	- engine can exist without car
- company, department
	- company can exist without department
- human, heart
	- heart can exist without human
- electric car, batteri
	- batteri can exist without electric car, but not wise verca
# 4 Abstract Classes
We need to model a Scrum Team using UML. You must model the different roles in a Scrum Team. Furthermore you must use an Abstract Class.
- How could an abstract class look like?
	- field: PO, scrum master, developers
	- default methods: fx print the team
	- defined methods: fx `notify()`-method which must be implemented by each scrum team implementer
- What is the benefit of using Abstract Classes?
	- you can have defined variables which must be there in each extender of the abstract classes. 
# 5 Sequence Diagrams
For this exercise we will draw a diagram for buying a ticket at the local cinema online.

- First draw it with only the User (you) and the Cinema
- Copy the Diagram and add the Payment Provider
- Copy the new Diagram and expand the Cinema to how you could model the classes like (User, Ticket, Show, …)
- What can you use the three different diagram for? Are they all useable?
# 6 Interfaces
What is an interface? What is the difference between an Interface and an Abstract Class?

Draw an UML diagram for a Cinema ticket system where you can either pay using, Credit Card, MobilePay, PayPal or Bank Transfer.
# 7 C4 Model
Investigate which of the C4 Diagrams can be automatically generated for your favorite programming language.

level 4: `code`, this should be autogenerated