# Spotify model
- Agile workplace. Fostering a place where you are allowed to fail and grow.
	- This is the `culture` that Spotify wants.
- `Squads`
	- Autonomous teams which has their own Agile-framework. Made like a `Line Organisation`, where we have people which are involved in different `chapters`, i.e have different roles
- `chapters` are groups of people inside of different domains. Fx `Agile coaches`, `developers`, `product owners`...
- multiple `squads` will form a `tribe` when these work more closely together, and can start working a little bit on each others code bases
	- in a `tribe` there are formed `chapters` of people which works in the same field as the others, again in `Agile coaching`, `development`... and 1 of these are `chapter leads` which is the leader of the chapter in this tribe.
- A `guild` contains members which has the same interests. This can be people inside of the same tribe, but can span over multiple tribes.
	- These can share knowledge in conferences, huddles ....
## Relies on
- trust / atounomousy
- people / agile
- different squads
	- feature squads, infrastructure squads ...
- Fostering a culture of failure is great
	- Learn fast. If not learning from failure, the we just fail
- Hackathons, 10% of time
## Why did it fail
- Management overhead
	- Both PO and chapter lead manages people in a squad, very much overhead.
		- Chapter lead also has hard time knowing exactly what happens in a squad and how to help
- Have to have a specific culture
	- Failing is a appreciated, motivation, innovation, trust
- Too atonomous
	- Having so many squads with their own sense of what is effective and what works, will lead to multiple subcultures, essentially you may end up feeling like you are working in a different company
	- Hard to align squads, tribes, chapters
